# Coinbase - Case Study
## Increasing economic freedom in the world!

## Company Overview
Coinbase power the cryptoeconomy, with the main mission of bringing economic freedom to the world. This is done through creating a more fair, accessible and transparent financial system that is powered through crypto. Coinbase went public on the NASDAQ (the first crypto company to go public) in April 2021 at a valuation of nearly $100 billion. Before going public Coinbase received $540 million worth of VC funding, with initial startup funding by Y Combinator startup incubator contributing $150,000 in cash.
  - Founded in 2011 by Brian Armstrong who at the time was a lead engineer for ABNB and the addition of co-founder Fred Ersham a trader from Goldman Sachs in 2012.
  - While best known as a crypto trading platform the companies bigger vision is to create an "open financial system".  And to accomplish that goal: Coinbase will execute on a three-pronged strategy that positions and promotes crypto assets as an investment vehicle, a new financial system, and an app platform.
  - Before going public Coinbase received $540 million worth of VC funding.
    - Coinbase brings in revenue mainly via trading fees from traders, but also through subscription and services fees, and through the occasional sale of crypto assets that it owns.
  - Brian Armstrong started coinbase as a way to create a new economy that could tie the world together, free of banks, and the hassle of cross border transactions.  To be able to link the wealthy to the poor seamlessly and give everyone in the world opportunity.
## Business Activites
Coinbase is attempting to solve the issue of making cryptocurrencies and digital assets accessible to everyone, and through a platform that is easy to use and understand.
Coinbase has a large target audience that is global as the app is available in over 100 countries, and provides a large variety of tools and technologies.
- The retail trader has 2 very useful options available to them via the main coinbase page and the coin pro which is a strict trading app with lower fees.
   - The regular coinbase app is full of information and knowledge for new investors where you are given pages of information and then through answering quiz questions you have the opportunity to earn crypto. This is generally where the average retail trader makes their purchases due to its ease of use, and ability to buy crypto through different avenues, such as bank transfer, creit card, crypto conversions. The slightly more advanced trader and small institution will use Coin Pro which is the GDAX (Global Digital Asset Exchange) where fees are much lower but trading is slightly more complex.  The GDAX however is where Coinbase gets its liquidity which means it is in house which gives Coinbase an extra layer of protection from hackers, that other exchanges don't have, as Coinbase is the exception in that they act as both a brokerage and a book exchange.
  - The you have the coinbase wallet which gives investors access to DeFi applications, and the ability to hold your coins off exchange.  This wallet however is a hot wallet meaning the coins are kept online so it could be susceptible to hackers but it gives users a way to invest in things such as NFT's by connecting their wallets to a website such as Opensea. Alongside the coinbase wallet Coinbase does offer users the ability to use hosted wallets, which will allow users the ability to keep their coins in cold storage safe from hackers and only accessible via your seed phrase.
  - Next up in coinbases plethora of offerings is Coinbase Prime and Coinbase Commerce. The former enables institutional investors to buy, store, and trade crypto assets on a massive scale while the latter allows businesses to use the Coinbase Commerce platform to accept crypto as payment.
  - Coinbase also offers products for developers such as connect, Coinbase Pros trading API, and their acquisition of Bison Trails which allows developers to participate in multiple blockchains, build apps, and run nodes.
  - The last offering is the Coinbase debit card which is really tailored toward the average retail investor as a way to DCA in to their favorite crpyo's just by purahsing their every day items, or subscription services. Users can get up to 4% crypto back on what is a pre loaded debit card and DCA in to the markets simply by making purchases they were already making. 
 
 Given all of this information I have concluded that the target audience is global, reaches both the retail investor of the tiniest portfolio to large institutions looking to move millions of dollars. Recently it was noted that only about 3.9% of global population currently invests in crypto's.  Crypto has become the fastest growing market over the last decade and to still be at under 4% global adoption means there is still a large untapped market potential for Coinbase.  Global GDP is $84.7 trillion meaning is plenty of room to grow and expand for an app that is already teh argest in the united States and in over 100 countries already.  Coinbase has the advantage of being the simplest and most user freindly exchange making it very inviting for new users while also implementing more advanced trading features for the experienced investors.  It has also has high security paired with high liquidity which is key for giving their customers the best price possible on their coins.
## Landscape
When looking at Coinbase as a whole Brian Armstrong does not like to look at the company as just a tech company or jsut a financial secotr compayn.  He finds those designations to be limiting to what the company is accomplishing, he considers Cionbase to be a Crypto company, something new entirely.  A quote from the man himsel We’re not satisfied with the limitations of either technology or finance industries. "We don’t want to move fast and break things — that doesn’t work when you’re handling people’s money. We also don’t want to become so conservative that more risk-tolerant organizations outrun us. We do want to draw the very best talent from tech and finance, and any other industry where the smartest people on earth are to be found, and shape them to be innovative in this new industry. There are not clearly defined rules in this industry, which means we have an opportunity to help write them. That is a huge opportunity that requires creative problem solving" If i had to pick one domaine from the financial sector to place Coinbase in I would say banking as Coinbase does act as a way to get loans, store your crypto, spend your crypto, receive it both peer to peer and as a merchant but really crypto currency and blockchain is it's own new domain.

Over the last 5-10 years this domain has seen massive growth. The crypto secotr as a whole has only been around for 12 years, growing from one cryptocurrency (Bitcoin) to thousnads of coins, NFT's, Smart contracts, Dapps, Metaverse, play to earn gaming and so much more.  In just 12 short years the total cryptocurrency market cap has grown to be $1.8 trillion today, but peaked in November at $3 trillion. 
  - Some of the biggest trends in the industry currently is the NFT (Non Fugible Token) craze.  What started out as just jpeg images has grown to be so much more. This idea has lead to the growth of play to earn gaming, the tokenization of things, and the Metaverse which is a reality world wher people can interact with each other, purcahse land and other items, display their NFT's attend meetings and much more. It's goal is to become a truw digital world within the physical world. And Coinbase is here to capture all parts of these sectors.  While it does not have it's own NFT exchange paltform (yet) you can connect your wallet to other exchanges to buy and sell NFT's, and their defi wallet allows you purcahse metaverse tokens, and PTE tokens as well.
  - The other big advancement this market has made and perhaps the most important given the current geopolitical landscape is the ability to enact in trustless, near isntant and low fee cross border transactions.  With the simple push fo a few buttons on Coinbase, users can send money to anyone acorss the world, cheaply and within seconds to minutes depending on the cryto used which is vastly faster than the current landscape of using banks.  That process is slow and outdated it can take 3-5 business days, and large transactions require wire transfers which can be very costly and still not as fast as crypto.  The space has also grown from the trading of just a few coins to major exchanges like Coinbase allowing the trade of hundreds of different tokens in the simplest way possible.
  - The other major companies in this domain are Binance, Kucoin, Kraken, Crypto.com, and Gemini.
## Results
The business impact of Coinbase has been massivein growing crypto adoption.  As of the time of this writing 11.3% of the entore cryto market cap is currently being held on the Cionbase paltform.There are 89 million verified users, in net income the company racked up an astonishing $3.6 billion an 11X on their 2020 numbers, and their trading volume grew 8.5X compared to 2020.  This makes Cionbase an all around winner and one of the largest, and most active exchanges on the market. And with Brian Armstrong making it a point to continuosly be in talks with regualtors there is less risk associated with Coinbase than other exchanges. And being the largest exchange in the United States, the largest country in terms of GDP, Cionbase is in a prime position for growth and continued destruction.
## Reccomendations
Some products and services that I would advise Coinbase to add to its platform would be staking, an NFT trading platform, increased margin trading, and a way to set up your wallet to DCA for you, and an IRA.
  - Coinbase has some staking on their platform but the coins are limited as are the APY especially when compared to some of it's competitors such as crypto.com, or binance international not the U.S. version.  This would bring more users to the paltform as a lot of people who don't mind leaving some of their coins on the exchange love the idea of earning APY on their coins.  This is one area Coinbase is lacking, users can get as high as 15% on Cronos on the crypto.com app and on the DeFi wallet there are tokens that earn as much as 100%.  
  - Another area Coinbase should tap in to is the NFT trading platform.  Opensea has had it's fair share of hiccups, and trust issues.  Not to mention the fees can really add up, if Coinbase can add NFT to the platform that is going to bring in a whole lot of new investors and money.  In January alone $4.8 billion worth of NFT were excahnged on Opensea with a total amrket cap for NFT projected to be at $35 billion this year there is a ton of untapped potential there. 
  - Coinbase does currently have some amrgin trading on their platform, up to 3X leverage but in order to be competetive in this market most excahnges offer up to at least 10X with occasionally 100X while that is excessive, 10X leverage is a market norm in this domaine.  Leverage trading is quite common in the space as traders lvoe suing the volatility of the market to create exponential gains through leverage.  For now this type of trading happens largely away from Coinbase on other exchanges. 
  - This next service falls more in line with what Cionbase stands for in helping the retail investor and the little man get involved in Crytpo is setting up a way to get your wallet to DCA for you on a time frame of our choice. This is a service offered by Voyager and is great for folks who jsut want to buy in to the market and forget about it.
  - Lastly if Cionbase could find a way to create an IRA they could tap in to a largely untapped market. I trust capital is the big heavy hitter in this market and it is still very much growing. In an exponetially growing market the ability to invest in a Roth IRA and not have to pay taxes on those gains is a truly incredible service, and one that could really help eliminate the problem of folks not having enough money when they retire. This serivice also gives Coinbase another way to compete with traditional banks, and not just their crypto peers.  
**Overall, Cionbase offers services that I highly recommend, are user friendly and simple, helping to bring in new investors on a daily basis while disrupting the space that will be the fastest growing of our lives.**

https://www.cbinsights.com/research/report/coinbase-strategy-teardown/

https://www.freethink.com/series/challengers/cryptocurrency

https://stackshare.io/coinbase

https://blog.coinbase.com/is-coinbase-a-finance-or-tech-company-f474b852272d

https://coinmarketcap.com/

https://www.businessofapps.com/data/coinbase-statistics/

https://www.businessofapps.com/data/coinbase-statistics/

https://fortunly.com/investments/best-crypto-exchange/#gref
